# Regression Modeling in Practice
Before I dive into a multiple regression analysis of my data, I’ll take a moment to describe some of it.

# Sample
I have cleaned the original GapMinder dataframe in order to retrieve insights in a greater way. I am using the GapMinder dataset to investigate the relationship between internet usage in a country and that country’s GDP, overall employment rate, female employment rate, and its “polity score”, which is a measure of a country’s democratic and free nature. The sample contains data on a country-level for 215 regions (the 192 U.N. countries, with Serbia and Montenegro aggregated into one, as well as 24 other non-country regions, such as Monaco for instance). The study population is these 215 countries and regions and my sample data is the same; ie, the population is small enough that no sample is necessary to make the data collecting and processing more manageable.

# Procedure
The data has been collected by the non-profit venture GapMinder from a handful of sources, including the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, the US Census Bureau’s International Database, the United Nations Statistics Division, and the World Bank. In the case of each data collection organization, data was collected from detailed surveys of the country’s population (such as in a national census) and based mainly upon 2010 data. Employment rate data comes from 2007 and polity score from 2009. Polity score is calculated by subtracting the autocracy score from the democracy score from the Polity IV project’s research. GapMinder’s goal in collecting this data is to help world leaders and their citizens to better understand the forces shaping the geopolitical landscape around the globe.

# Measures
My response variable is the internet use rate and my explanatory variables are income per person, employment rate, female employment rate, and polity score. Internet use rate, employment rate, and female employment rate are scaled as percentages of the country’s population. Income per person is simply Gross Domestic Product per capita (the country’s total, country-wide income divided by the population). Polity score is a single measure applied to the whole country. The internet use rate of a country was collected by the World Bank in their World Development Indicators. Income per person is simply the 2010 Gross Domestic Product per capita in constant 2000 USD. The inflation, but not the differences in the cost of living between countries, has been taken into account (this can lead to the seemingly odd case of a having negative income per person, when that country already has very low income relative to the United States plus high inflation, relative to the United States). Both employment rate and female employment rate have been provided by the International Labour Organization. Finally, the polity score has been calculated by the Polity IV project.

I have gone through the data and removed entries where data is missing, when necessary, and sometimes have aggregated data into bins, for histograms, for instance, but otherwise have not modified the data in any way. Deeper data management was unnecessary for the analysis.
